chore: Improve articles about Git repositories URLs usage (#2642)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/pages/starting-a-new-workspace-with-a-clone-of-a-git-repository.adoc

[id="starting-a-new-workspace-with-a-clone-of-a-git-repository"]
= Starting a new workspace with a clone of a Git repository

> With {prod-short}, you can visit a URL in your browser to start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {prod-short}, you can use a URL in your browser to start
```

a new workspace that contains a clone of a Git repository.
This way, you can clone a Git repository that is hosted on GitHub,

> a GitLab, a Bitbucket or Azure DevOps server instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure DevOps server instance.
```

TIP: You can also use the *Git Repo URL* field on the *Create Workspace* page of your {prod-short} dashboard to enter the URL of a Git repository to start a new workspace.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Starting a workspace using an HTTPS URL from a Git service other mentioned above will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting a workspace using an HTTPS URL from a Git service other than GitHub, GiLab, Bitbucket, or Microsoft Azure DevOps will fail.
```

<1> See xref:optional-parameters-for-the-urls-for-starting-a-new-workspace.adoc[].
====
+
[TIP]
====

> It is possible to use GIT+SSH URLs to start a new workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use GIT+SSH URLs to start a new workspace.
```

See link:https://github.com/devfile/devworkspace-operator/blob/main/docs/additional-configuration.adoc#configuring-devworkspaces-to-use-ssh-keys-for-git-operations[Configuring DevWorkspaces to use SSH keys for Git operations]
====
+
.A URL for starting a new workspace
====
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://github.com/che-samples/cpp-hello-world]`
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#git@github.com:che-samples/cpp-hello-world.git]`
====

+
.The URL syntax for starting a new workspace with a clone of a GitHub instance repository
====

* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<github_host>__/__<user_or_org>__/__<repository>__]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the default branch.
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<github_host>__/__<user_or_org>__/__<repository>__/tree/__<branch_name>__]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the specified branch.
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<github_host>__/__<user_or_org>__/__<repository>__/pull/__<pull_request_id>__]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the branch of the pull request.
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#git@__<github_host>__:__<user_or_org>__/__<repository>__.git]` starts a new workspace from GIT+SSH URL.
====

+

> .The URL syntax for starting a new workspace with a clone of a Gitlab instance repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.The URL syntax for starting a new workspace with a clone of a GitLab instance repository
```

====

* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<gitlab_host>__/__<user_or_org>__/__<repository>__]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the default branch.
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<gitlab_host>__/__<user_or_org>__/__<repository>__/-/tree/__<branch_name>__]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the specified branch.

> * `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#git@__<gitlab_host>__:__<user_or_org>__/__<repository>__.git]` starts a new workspace from GIT+SSH URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#git@__<gitlab_host>__:__<user_or_org>__/__<repository>__.git]` starts a new workspace from Git+SSH URL.
```

====

+
.The URL syntax for starting a new workspace with a clone of a BitBucket Server repository
====

* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<bb_host>__/scm/__<project-key>__/__<repository>__.git]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the default branch.
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<bb_host>__/users/__<user_slug>__/repos/__<repository>__/]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the default branch, if a repository was created under the user profile.
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<bb_host>__/users/__<user-slug>__/repos/__<repository>__/browse?at=refs%2Fheads%2F__<branch-name>__]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the specified branch.

> * `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#git@__<bb_host>__:__<user_slug>__/__<repository>__.git]` starts a new workspace from GIT+SSH URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#git@__<bb_host>__:__<user_slug>__/__<repository>__.git]` starts a new workspace from Git+SSH URL.
```

====
+

> .The URL syntax for starting a new workspace with a clone of an Azure DevOps Git repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.The URL syntax for starting a new workspace with a clone of a Microsoft Azure DevOps Git repository
```

====
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<organization>__@dev.azure.com/__<organization>__/__<project>__/_git/__<repository>__]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the default branch.
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#https://__<organization>__@dev.azure.com/__<organization>__/__<project>__/_git/__<repository>__?version=GB__<branch>__]` starts a new workspace with a clone of the specific branch.

> * `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#git@ssh.dev.azure.com:v3/__<organization>__/__<project>__/__<repository>__]` starts a new workspace from GIT+SSH URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#git@ssh.dev.azure.com:v3/__<organization>__/__<project>__/__<repository>__]` starts a new workspace from Git+SSH URL.
```
